title: VERO
date: 2016-01-12 13:00:33
tags:
---

VERO
What are your impressions of Vero? The platform + the after purchase support?
We started using VERO when it was a very early stage product. The platform has been evolving quite a bit but has pretty much always kept pace with our needs. The support from the team is fantastic, it can sometimes be a bit delayed because most of the team is in Australia, but they are adding west coast support and the whole team is extremely helpful. Chris and his product managers have also been really engaged in asking 'what do you need next', and they've implemented a few features directly based on our feedback.
…
How does your team use it? (Transactional, Newsletters, Behavioral emails?)
We use it for all three. We also use some of the advanced features like external attributes (where the message to be sent makes a webhook call to our server for more details to include in the email.
…
How easy was the integration? 
Very easy. For most of the time we used Segment for integration, but just recently we started sending some events directly to VERO. The webhook calls where VERO calls us were also easy to set up. 
…
Why did you pick it over other platforms you evaluated?
Three reasons: they could handle Transactional, Newsletters and Behavioral all in one system, their costs were significantly better than the competition (and scaled in a way that worked for us), and the filtering rules were comprehensive enough and easy for our marketing team to understand. They were significantly cheaper than customer.io and SailThru, the other tools we considered, and VERO's 'happy to help' support attitude kept us with them.
…
Is there a risk sending transactional emails through segment/vero instead of a direct integration with SendGrid?
Yes, there's always some more risk. Every link in the chain adds both time to send and reliability concerns. We were phasing Segment out of the loop and integrating directly with VERO for this reason. There have been times when VERO slows down and transactional emails are delayed, and there have been a few (very few) brief (15-20 minute) periods, usually late at night, where their servers cannot receive messages, so data will either be lost or delayed, based on your implementation. 

For us the direct support and overall quality of the product has made it worth any issues VERO might have. I would recommend taking Segment out of the loop though, at least for transactional emails - although they do have the ability to replay events if a destination service goes down, they add enough of a delay (a few seconds to a minute) that can be noticeable.

As an aside, we use Mandrill now instead of SendGrid or Mailgun for some transactional emails we haven't had time to convert to VERO yet. We found Mandrill (as a company) much more reliable and responsive than Mailgun, and cheaper than SendGrid.
…
I can’t see Segment or Vero on your site (via Ghostery) - are you firing the events & .js differently?
I'm not sure if you were looking at assuredlabor.com (not much there) or our actual product (www.empleolisto.com.mx), but either way you are right: We've transitioned almost all of our events to the server side - we found it more reliable with our end users (in emerging markets with spotty, low bandwidth internet connections) and our technology stack. We also wanted to minimize the JS our end users have to download. That is more of a technical decision though and I wouldn't necessary recommend you away from using the front-end libraries, it depends on your clients and use cases.

By the way - about the delay I mentioned above from Segment - that would be from server-sent events where they route the messages to Segment first, then on to the destination. If you are using client-side events, I think Segment's library will have the client send events directly to all the services you integrate with. Of course its possible for there to be some 'jitter' and discrepancy between the events received by different services then.
…


SEGMENT
How do you use Segment? (Are you on the business plan?)
We signed up with Segment so early that we seem to have slipped through the cracks - for a while we were paying $10/mo, but now we pay nothing but send millions of events through them every month and have access to most of their integrations (but not all). I assume at some point they'll notice and ask us to start paying.

I asked a question about event-abstraction layers on StackOverflow and they responded soon after they launched, so we jumped on board right at the beginning:

http://stackoverflow.com/questions/9677442/is-there-a-event-analytics-abstraction-layer-for-javascript
…
Did you consider building an internal tool to handle user events? 
I would have, if we had a larger team. 
…
Are the Segment folks good to work with (after the sale?)
We've had lousy support from them, and their libraries (at least the Java one) was pretty buggy for a long time. Their implementation had race conditions and the sending queue would lock up. Then events were silently dropped. We lost a lot of data for a long time until we realized what was happening. They've since fixed most of those issues, but it took them a long time to get around to addressing it and I'm still not completely confident in relying on it.

We use Java, so your experience with Ruby or JavaScript might be better.
…
How reliable is it? Do you have an SLA with them? 
No SLA. As I said, we lost data from their client side. We used to have a weird problem where every day at 9 am webhook calls to them (and only them) from our servers would be dropped for about 7 minutes. Their servers were just inaccessible from ours. Our hosting company said there were no problems in our data center, but Segment was useless in helping us debug the problem. Eventually it just disappeared.

Other than that, they rarely seem to have outages, (I remember one instance early on, but not since then). As I mentioned, since they save everything, if a downstream service has trouble they can replay the events. At least, the used to do that, I don't know if they will anymore.
…
Anything we should keep in mind when integrating with Segment?
 I recommend them for prototyping and client-side events, although we are still using it on the server side I wouldn't recommend that much, for the reasons I mentioned above. In general I think Segment is another "link in the chain" and a source of risk, and it can get expensive. For us it wouldn't be worth it if we had to pay for it ourselves.
